hello everyone in the previous lectures
we have studied about DFAS and nfas so
in this lecture we will be studying
about how to convert nfas to DFAS all
right so let's get
started okay so we say that every DFA is
an NFA but not vice versa that means
that every DFA is an NFA but every NFA
is not a DFA all right but there is an
equivalent DFA for every NFA that means
every NFA can be converted to an
equivalent
DFA okay so we have two statements here
but how do I justify this in order to
justify this let us do it this way when
we studied about DFA and NFA we studied
that DFA is defined using five tles NFA
also is is is defined using five Tes and
all the tles in DFA and NFA were same
except for one of the tles and which was
that if you remember it was the
transition function D in case of
DFA in case of DFA what was the value of
d d was a transition function that Maps
Q cross Sigma to Q right this was the
transition function for DFA and in case
of n fa what was a transition function
in case of
NFA the value for D was Q cross Sigma 2
2^ Q so this was the only tle that was
different in DF and NFA all the other
tles were same now let us observe these
two equations and try to figure out how
can we justify this statement so if you
look carefully you can see that Q cross
Sigma to Q
this part it is contained in this part Q
cross Sigma to 2 power q q is also a
part of 2 power Q I hope you're getting
what I'm saying but 2 power Q is not a
part of Q so this it is already
contained in this so we can look at
these two equations and say that every
DFA is an NFA but every NFA is not a DFA
all right but there is an equivalent DFA
for every NFA but there is a way we can
convert
every
NFA to a DFA that means we can
make them equivalent there is a way to
convert every NFA to DFA and that is
what we are going to see in this lecture
all right so to demonstrate this let's
let us take a simple
example okay so we have an example
language here L which is the set of all
strings over 01 that starts with zero so
let us design an NFA for the language
which accepts the set of all strings
over 01 that starts with zero so here
our input uh symbols Sigma is 0 and 1 so
let me design the NFA for this so in
order to do that we have a starting
state which is State
a and a on getting
input
zero I will send it to the next state
which is State
B and my condition is that it should
start with zero so a on this is the
first input I get a on getting input
zero goes to B and B should be my final
State or the accepting State and in in B
after that whatever I get I don't care
whether it is zero or one it stays in B
itself so this is the NFA this is
the NFA for L all right so how do we
know it is an NFA a on getting input one
I did not mention where it goes It goes
to the that configuration so that is not
mentioned means it is a NFA okay now
before proceeding let us just draw the
state transition diagram for this I'm
trying to draw the state transition
diagram for this NFA and from the state
transition diagram I will have my inputs
here zero and one and here I will have
my States A and B okay now let us fill
up this table a on getting input zero
where does it go it goes to
b and a on getting input one where does
it go it goes
nowhere goes to five right five is the
debt configuration so remember that this
debt configuration in NFA will be what
will be its equivalent in DFA in DFA the
equivalent of De configuration will be a
Deb state or a trap state so keep that
in mind and let's come to State b b on
getting input zero where does it go it
goes to B itself and B on getting input
one where does it go it goes to
B
itself okay now let us try to convert
this state transition diagram for this
NFA to its equivalent DFA okay so what
we are trying to do is make
the
DFA so the straight transition diagram
for DFA how would it look like I'll
again draw a table
here okay and in my table what will be
the things I have I'll have 01 which are
my inputs and I have my States A and B
okay now let's see let's look at this
table and try to convert it into a DFA
so a on getting input zero where does it
go it goes to State b and a on getting
input one where does it go it goes to
five five is a dead configuration in NF
but in case of DFA we cannot have a de
configuration this should be replaced by
some kind of state and what is that
State I will call it State C and state C
is
my Deb
state it is the dead State also known as
the Trap
State okay and B on getting input zero
where does it go it goes to B itself and
B on getting input one it goes to B
itself okay now is it complete it is not
complete why this is a DFA and I should
mention clearly clearly about each and
every state where it goes on getting
particular inputs I have mentioned about
A and B but here I have a new state in
this DFA and that is State C so I need
to mention about State c as well and if
you remember whenever any input comes to
the dead state it stays in the Deb State
itself and it does not go out of that so
C on getting input zero should stay in C
itself and C on getting input one it
should stay in C itself because C is my
dead state or trap State now this is a
complete straight transition diagram for
my DFA now let me draw the diagram State
diagram for
this here I I should have a and then
B my final State should also be B right
and in here I have a extra state that is
State
C Okay so so a is my starting State a on
getting input zero it goes to B right
and a on getting input one it goes
to
C should go to C on getting input one
all right and B on getting input 0er and
one it stays in B
itself stays in B itself I'm getting
input0 or one and let's come to State c
c on getting input Z and one it stays in
C
itself okay so here I have the complete
DFA let us check if it is complete in a
I have mentioned what happens when it
gets zero and one yeah a is complete B
also I have mentioned what happens when
it gets Z and one B is complete C also I
have mentioned what happens on getting
input zero and one so C is also complete
so now we have made the equivalent DFA
for this above NFA and this is how you
convert a NFA to its equivalent DFA so I
hope this was clear to you and thank you
for watching and we will see more
examples in the next
[Applause]
[Music]
lecture